% Thesis Acknowledgements ------------------------------------------------


%\begin{acknowledgementslong} %uncommenting this line, gives a different acknowledgements heading
\begin{acknowledgements}      %this creates the heading for the acknowlegments

First I would like to express my deep gratitude to Jean-Philippe Vert for
supervising my work and sharing his expertise during these three years, for
having welcomed me in his research team and giving me the opportunity to work
in two prestigious and stimulating institutes: Institut Curie and Mines
ParisTech. I would also like to thank William Noble for suggesting the subject
and the collaborations from which my PhD relied on, and mentoring me during
the past three years.

I would like to thank St\'ephane Robin and Marc Marti-Renom for accepting to
review my thesis, and sharing interesting comments and discussions with me. I
am also grateful to Emmanuel Barillot, William Noble and Julien Mozziconacci
for accepting to be part of the jury.

Many people have contributed, directly or indirectly to the work presented in
this thesis, and I would like to thank them here: Nicolas Servant, for whom I
am grateful for his availablity to answer my questions, for sharing his
expertise on Hi-C; Karine Le Roch and the amazing people from her team,
Sebastiaan Le Bol and Evelien Bunnik, for providing the collaboration, support
and ideas behind our project on \textit{P. falciparum}, once again William
Noble and members of his team, Ferhat Ay, Kate Cook and Wenxiu Hu, for their
expertise on the analysis of the 3D structure of the genome and our fruitful
collaborations; and all my other collaborators: Édith Heard, Éric Viara,
Chong-Jian Chen, Job Dekker, Bryan Lajoie, Jacques Prudhomme, Maitreya Dunham,
Ivan Liachko, Jay Shendure, Josh Burton. I'd like to thank all the members and
former members of the CBIO: Alice Schoenauer-Sebag for sharing her experience
(and frustration) on using the High Performance Ressources at our disposal,
but also her passion for the op\'era; Toby Hocking and Anne-Claire Haury,
without whom the CBIO was just not quite the same; Elsa Bernard, Erwan
Scornet, Véronique Stoven for all the stories shared around a coffee, Thomas
Walter, Yunlong Jiao, Chloé Azencott, Matahi Moarii, Pierre Chiche, Xiwei
Zhang, Victor Bellon, Judith Abécassis, Svetlana Gribkhova, Nino Shervashidze,
Andrea Cavagnino, Émile Richard, Édouard Pauwels, Kevin Vervier, Olivier
Collier, and Azadeh Khaleghi.

I'd like to thank my parents supporting with me during those three years, my
brother Ga\"el for convincing me to start my studies again to deepen my
knowledge of machine learning.

\end{acknowledgements}
%\end{acknowledgmentslong}

% ------------------------------------------------------------------------


